>>SEAN STONE: Sinister forces
and political witchcraft.
Let's enter the "Buzzsaw."
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
And with me today
is Peter Levenda,
who has been
investigating and writing
about the connections
that exists
between politics, religion,
and history since the 1970s.
He's written many books,
such as "Sinister Forces,"
a grimoire of American
political witchcraft.
His novel, "The Lovecraft Code,"
published in December, 2016,
and the first installment
of his three volume work
for Tom DeLonge, called
"Secret Machines--
Gods, Man, and War,"
published in March, 2017.
Today he joins me to talk
about our haunted planet.
Really, where I want
to start is this issue
of what John Keel has called
the "haunted planet," because it
seems to me that you do have a
certain sensibility that there
is much more going on
here than meets the eye.
And I wanted to start
by asking, is this
a belief that you've
always had since childhood?
Or did you have some
direct experience,
whether it was out of
body, or extraterrestrial,
or supernatural, at some
point in your early life?
>>PETER LEVENDA:
In a sense, yes.
I've never seen a
UFO, for instance.
So that whole aspect
is not something
that I have direct
experience of.
But as far as
supernatural experiences,
or anything sort of paranormal,
I did, when I was much younger.
I was sort of drawn
to the subject matter
at a pretty early age.
Brought up Catholic, there
was a lot of mysticism.
A lot of talk about angels
and demons, and, you know,
heaven and hell, and
all of these concepts.
So you grew up, you know,
surrounded by the supernatural
in that sense.
But then, considerably later--
I was about 15 or 16 years old--
and I had an experience of
the table-tipping variety.
You know.
So there were a seance
conducted by members
of my own immediate family.
And a very large,
very heavy oaken
table we had gotten
in New Hampshire, when
we lived there briefly.
And just fooling
around, basically,
with a Ouija board
and some candles,
we decided to see
what would happen.
And we had that experience.
So we had this experience of
a table rising in the air.
Now, that's was a problem
for me, in a sense.
Because I didn't know
how to handle that.
I mean, the Ouija board
thing and everything--
you can sort of explain
away a lot of things.
But I was in high school.
And I was trying to get my high
school diploma and graduate.
And I'm taking
courses in chemistry,
and physics, and
all the sciences,
and here I am watching
something which
defies any kind of
scientific explanation.
So I basically kept my mouth
shut where that was concerned,
and didn't talk about
this to anyone else,
because it was just too strange.
And it would not
have done well for me
to go around talking about this.
And let's face it, most people
would not believe it anyway.
So I kept it to myself.
I kept my whole
experience of that quiet.
But what it did do in a
positive way was open my mind
to the fact that there are
things that happen-- now,
whether they're physical
forces, or supernatural forces--
you know, I don't know.
I don't have an easy
explanation for it.
All I know is that
things do take place.
Sometimes under human control.
And these things can take
place, they can occur,
and now you have to
somehow integrate this
into your view of reality.
And that's the hard part.
And in a sense, I look
back on that one episode
in a negative way, because
if that hadn't happened,
my life might have gone on
in a more rational, you know,
in a more normal way.
>>SEAN: Or boring.
>>LEVENDA: Or boring.
>>SEAN: A more boring way.
>>LEVENDA: For sure.
>>SEAN: And I think it's
very similar to experiences
that I've had.
But I think the
point is that you
didn't fall into the trap of
only studying the supernatural.
You actually said,
look, I'm an historian.
I'm going to study history.
And we have so many
wonderful anecdotal accounts,
historically, of many
things like this.
So this only helped inform
your historical study.
Then so in terms of this
new book with Tom DeLonge--
obviously he is a rock
star from Blink 182,
but he also has his own
perception and belief
in aliens and the supernatural.
He came out and made
waves talking about this
a few years ago, I believe.
About two years ago.
So what did Tom bring
to the conversation that
made you want to work with
him on the "Secret Machines"
project?
>>LEVENDA: That's an
interesting story,
because I had heard of Tom
DeLonge, of course, before.
I heard of Blink 182.
And when he contacted
me, I thought
it was some kind
of hoax, initially.
You know?
But eventually we
worked that part out.
And we had some very long
conversations on this.
And his approach to this
was quite interesting.
He wanted to do a multimedia
multi-disciplinary approach
to the subject.
He had always been fascinated
by the UFO phenomenon.
And he felt that a
lot of the work that's
been done so far, while
it has been very valuable
and it's built up
a lot of evidence,
and mountains of evidence
for the existence
of the phenomenon, as we call
it, was not getting anywhere.
We're sort of in a loop on this.
And we keep looking
for disclosure.
We keep looking for
somebody in authority
to come down and tell
us, yes, it's all right.
You can believe in UFOs now.
His approach was,
let's create something
which is much more powerful.
Let's use the
information that we know.
Let's not try to prove
the existence of UFOs,
because that's been done.
If you already have
read all of these books
by all the famous
authors on UFOs,
whether they're good,
bad, or indifferent,
you already have an
opinion about this.
There's no need for us
to go back and start
writing all these
books that are going
to prove the existence
of UFOs, and go
into all these lengthy
sighting analysis.
That's just boring,
and it's been
done before by a lot of people.
And it's not
getting us anywhere.
I mean, I always tell people
who talk to me about this,
how's that working out for you?
You know.
We are in a loop on this, and
we're not getting anywhere.
So what Tom was expressing was,
let's start from the premise
that this is a real phenomenon.
Now what?
Where do we go from there?
You know, how do we integrate
people from the sciences?
From the government?
From military?
From the intelligence
operations?
From corporate and
industrial areas?
How do we get these
people to talk
to us about what they know?
The aspect of this
phenomenon they've seen.
Or how they interpret
the phenomenon,
if they haven't
directly experienced it.
What do we do about that?
How do we approach this?
What can we do to
let people know
that there is a
reality behind this,
and that it actually has
impacted human society
for a very long time?
If we accept the phenomenon
exists and it's real,
it means that we
go back to history
and look at it with fresh eyes.
And this is not a religious
or cult-like approach
that we're taking.
It's probably the opposite.
We think that an
atheist, or a skeptic,
should be comfortable with
this analysis of history.
Because it kind of removes
a lot of the mysticism
from the explanation,
in a sense.
A lot of the ideology, a lot of
the spirituality, in a sense.
And brings it down to,
there was contact between us
and some other entity.
Some other phenomenon.
And that's what jump
started everything.
>>SEAN: But DeLonge also has
talked about his relationship
with certain
government insiders.
>>LEVENDA: Yes.
>>SEAN: And the desire
to basically perpetuate
disclosure.
And so can you tell us
anything about his accounts,
his information
that he's discussed,
or what makes you believe that,
yes, he has these sources,
and they really do want to
disclose what's taking place?
>>LEVENDA: In the first
place, I know the sources
exist for a number of reasons.
One, because I've been involved
peripherally, or sometimes
directly, in some of
these conversations.
So I can vouch for the fact that
these sources actually exist.
And unfortunately, because
of the WikiLeaks leak
of John Podesta's
e-mails, we have
the names of some of the
people we've talked to.
They were released
against our will.
Not because we wanted that.
We were protecting our
sources, and we take that
very seriously.
But in this case, there
was this illegal operation,
and the names of
people were released.
So the world now knows that
Tom was not making this up.
Those are not the names of the
advisors, or all the advisers,
or anything like that.
But it gives you an idea
of who we were talking to.
And we were talking to
people who were very highly
advanced in the military.
And in various aspects
of the space exploration
mechanism of the United States.
So that much is true.
What they've been
telling us is something
that we've been keeping
close to our vest,
for a number of reasons.
One, because we have to be
careful about what we say,
that if we say something,
it doesn't reveal a source.
So we're back to how
do we talk about this,
and can we get corroboration
from more people?
Either people who are willing
to go on the record, or even
people who are not, but
multiple sources to corroborate.
So we work along those lines.
We want to protect the sources.
That's, of course,
very important to us.
And it's very important
to the sources.
I mean, as you can imagine.
Also, what we want to do is
make sure the information
we're giving makes
sense to our audience--
to our proposed
audience, which is
people who may never have
come to this subject at all
if it was not for Tom DeLonge
and his celebrity status.
That way, people who know
Tom and like the music
are willing to kind of
entertain this information.
Entertain this idea that
there is a reality to the UFO
phenomenon.
So we're interested in
approaching these people
and saying, this
is why, you know,
we're going in this direction.
This is what we're
trying to accomplish.
And so we're bringing
the information--
in the first book, for instance,
I make a direct reference
to the advisers.
And they told us, in
one particular case,
to go back and relook at
stories of the Greek myths.
Look at the Greek
mythology in general.
Without going into
too much detail,
they directed us-- they
sent us in that direction,
and said, look at this again,
from your perspective now.
What do you see?
And that is what helped to
inform book one of "The Secret
Machines--
Gods, Man, and War" project.
Was, we looked
back at this thing
and we said, oh, I see
what you're saying.
I see where you're
going with this.
If we reanalyze the Greek
mythology in terms of contact,
certain things
start to make sense
that didn't make sense before.
And this is part of our project.
We start the book off
talking about cargo cults.
Now cargo cults is a common
kind of a meme, you might say.
People are familiar
with the idea.
People in a very
primitive location.
A Stone Age people suddenly see
airplanes landing on a landing
strip, and they're bringing
food, and medicine,
and uniforms, and technology,
and these Stone Age people
are watching this take place.
They don't know what this is.
They have no context for it in
their society, their religion,
their culture-- nothing.
Just the mere experience
of this changes them.
So they go and they build
airline landing strips, right?
They build conning towers--
they build all kinds of stuff.
They take coconuts and
build headsets from it.
They're trying to
duplicate what they saw,
in the expectation
that a plane will
land on their landing strip, and
give them all this good stuff.
>>SEAN: Right.
>>LEVENDA: OK?
So that's the
cargo cult concept.
We've taken this
one step further.
And we're saying, it's not
just our religion that's
a cargo cult. It's not
just the pyramids in Egypt,
or the Nazca Lines or something.
We're saying our entire
civilization is a cargo
cult. Our science
is a cargo cult.
Because we're trying
to get off planet.
We're trying to go to the stars.
We're trying to go to space.
Why?
When, for hundreds of
thousands of years,
we wandered around the
savannas of this planet.
We were perfectly OK as
Homo sapiens doing nothing
much except hanging
out and chilling.
And then suddenly
something happens
and we all get crazy, all around
the globe at the same time,
and we are now trying
to get to the stars.
>>SEAN: So do you think
that the Masons are
an extension of those ancient
builder cults around, you know,
things like the pyramids
and the ziggurats?
Basically, are you saying that,
you know, if that were true,
did the Masons basically take
us back to our ET origins,
in a sense?
>>LEVENDA: In a sense, yes.
I mean, I've written
about this a little bit
in a book called
"Tantric Temples."
And I also wrote a
book on Freemasonry
called "The Secret Temple."
And for me, the interesting
part of Freemasonry
was their connections back
to the ancient builders.
The idea of geometry,
and mathematics--
and even going so far
as to introduce music
as a kind of geometry
in mathematics as well.
This idea that the
whole human experience
is based upon some chords,
you know, and some harmonics.
The Builders understood that.
You know, they integrated
the earthly topography
with the celestial one.
That was very important.
The alignment of buildings.
Even if it was just purely on
cardinal-- cardinal points.
North, East, South, and West.
Something.
There was this idea that
the planet and the cosmos
itself was connected
in some way.
And the connection
was to be found
in mathematics and geometry.
That was the beginning,
I think, of understanding
how to create this
kind of mystique
where we're going
to go off planet.
The ancient Masons,
before the 18th century--
the Masons who were
actually conducting
ceremonies in the 15th
century, for instance.
In the 16th century--
were really focused on the
idea of, number one, building,
and geometry on the one hand.
But at the same time with
initiation on the other.
With death and rebirth.
And death and rebirth rituals
go back at least as far
as ancient Egypt.
The pyramid structures
were designed
as one pyramidologist
called it, the pyramid
is a resurrection machine.
And the idea that you
can create a device
that would send
someone to the stars--
to live an immortal existence--
was ancient.
It goes back to the
very heart of what
it means to be human in our
civilizations around the world.
The idea of immortality.
So I think connecting
immortality
with geometry,
and with building,
and with music-- creating
these devices, these machines?
The Gothic cathedrals?
Now, a lot of us
think of Freemasons
as a bunch of guys
meeting up, you know,
and dressing in funny
robes, and, you know,
memorizing long,
incomprehensible speeches,
and then having business
discussions later, right?
In small towns across the United
States and around the world.
But there's another
aspect to Freemasonry,
which is the initiatory one.
The third degree ritual
is a beautiful ritual
of death and rebirth.
And it's something that's
been duplicated by cultures
all around the world.
And that, I think, is
where our focus is.
What does that mean?
What is death and rebirth?
What is immortality?
You know, what is the
secret of human existence?
Why are we here?
All these things go
back to these issues.
And the only way,
sometimes, to understand
what these issues are is to
experience them directly.
And that's what the initiation
process enables you to do.
>>SEAN: So would you
say that we have a lot
to learn from ancient Egypt?
Whether it be-- we
should take pantheism
from it, or even alchemy.
Obviously I know you're
very fascinated by alchemy.
You've written a number
of books on the subject.
So you think that these are
important for our society,
obviously.
>>LEVENDA: I think
that ancient Egypt is.
We know so little
about it, really.
We're uncovering more and more
information as we go along.
The country is
full of monuments,
and stelae, and things
we haven't seen yet--
we're uncovering day by day.
I think that, for
me, the interest
was always in one specific
ritual, believe it or not.
Out of all the rituals
of ancient Egypt,
only one really fascinates
me, and that's the Opening
of the Mouth Ceremony.
And that's the mummy process.
During the
mummification process,
an actual device is used.
This is a very
interesting looking thing,
because it makes
no sense, if you
look at it within the context
of Egyptian culture in general.
It's an oddly shaped
iron device which
is used to open the mouth of
the mummy, which is basically
used to animate the mummy
as it's going on its trip
to the stars.
The device is shaped exactly in
the pattern of the Big Dipper.
And it's called
the "Thigh of Set."
And sometimes in
the hieroglyphics,
and in some of the Book of
the Dead paintings that you'll
find, you'll find an
actual thigh of a bull used
as part of the ceremony.
But also, this adze, as
they call it in English--
A-D-Z-E, "adze"-- is
fashioned in this form.
Why is that?
And that's because the
Great Bear constellation
rotates around the North Star.
The Pole Star.
And it never sets-- it
never rises or sets.
It circles on top.
It doesn't go below the
horizon, or above it.
It just stays in one
place, and goes around
roughly 24 hours a day.
You can actually tell time
by this constellation.
But more importantly,
there are seven major stars
of the Big Dipper.
And that, to me, was the
basis of our mystification
about the number seven.
It was not seven planets.
I don't think the ancients were
as innocent or naive to think
that the sun and the moon
were the same as the five
other planets that they saw.
I think they were
smarter than that.
I think the seven refers
to those seven stars,
because they are
seven steps that
lead you to the final throne--
the throne of immortality,
the throne of God--
and this is reprised in some of
the ancient Jewish ceremonies.
The Merkaba,
mysticism, Hekhalot,
which is to go on a
journey of seven stages,
and then reach the
throne of God at the end.
And you'll find the names of
the stars used by the Arabs,
and used by some of the ancient
cultures, reflect this idea.
This is a vehicle,
these seven stars.
It's called "Charles
Wayne" in England.
You know, it's an actual cart
that's pulled by a horse.
The Arabs have a similar idea.
It's called a chariot
in some cultures.
In China, it's called a chariot.
So in cultures all
around the world,
they see this as a vehicle.
And that, to me, is fascinating.
So there's the design
of the vehicle.
And it's made out of meteoric
iron, which was probably
magnetized ore, which would
then have pointed north anyway.
>>SEAN: Right.
>>LEVENDA: And so they used this
to actually animate the mummy--
the spirit contained
within the mummy--
and so that it can then proceed
on its way to the stars.
So that, to me, is-- there's
a whole world of information
there.
>>SEAN: And aside
from the number seven,
the number nine obviously was
prominent within Osirian Egypt,
because there were the
Ennead of nine gods.
Now, you say this channeling
session of the nine
in the 1950s, right?
It was led by a CIA
agent, Andrija Puharich.
And apparently they were
channeling the nine.
What do you make
of that session?
Why is it so important
in your book?
Your first "Sinister Forces"
volume was called "The Nine."
Why is this session
so important to you?
>>LEVENDA: To me, it's
an astonishing event
in human history.
I mean, I can't even begin to
describe how important this
has to be, and it's largely
ignored, even though everyone's
written about it.
I mean, Puharich himself
wrote about it in some detail.
Elements of this came
out in various places.
People acknowledge
that it existed.
Everyone knows that
this actually happened,
and yet nobody cares.
And it's like, I
can't believe it.
Here, in this
particular seance, you
had not only Andrija
Puharich, who at the time
had a commission in the US Army.
Was going back to the army
during the Korean War.
Was giving speeches on
weaponizing the paranormal,
you know, at Edgewood Arsenal.
I mean, here was a
guy who was considered
OK by the military industrial
establishment, right?
So he's going on and
talking about this,
but he's having a seance
in the woods in Maine.
And participating in
this seance is a DuPont--
a member of the DuPont family.
A member of the Astor family.
Arthur Young, who invented
the Bell Helicopter,
and his wife, Ruth Forbes.
These people are all
part of the seance.
This is the blue blood American
dynasties who are present
at this particular
seance, trying
to contact
extraterrestrial beings,
or some kind of spiritual force,
later described as nine beings
above a spacecraft
in low earth orbit.
What?
You know?
So I'm looking at this
and thinking, well,
this is incredible.
And this is Arthur
Young and Ruth Forbes--
where have I heard that
name before, you know?
So Ruth Forbes was Ruth
Forbes Paine Young.
She had been multiply married.
And always married to
people who were very,
you know, prominent in
their fields, and wealthy.
And of course, she
was the Forbes family.
That goes without saying.
So we had a Forbes, a DuPont,
an Astor, et cetera, et cetera,
et cetera.
And they're all there.
And Ruth Forbes, of course,
was the mother-in-law
of Ruth Paine.
And Ruth Paine lived
in Texas, and was
a friend of Marina Oswald
and Lee Harvey Oswald.
It was Ruth Paine who got Lee
his job at the Texas School
Book Depository.
And her mother-in-law was
at this seance in 1952, '53,
and they're conducting
these rituals,
you know, and they're
contacting spiritual forces.
And then the speeches
from the beings--
"We are nine, and
you are nine"--
because there were nine
participants-- you know,
basically, go out
and do likewise.
You know, go out and do
things, and, you know,
change the world.
And a very interesting
sentence was
given that peace is not
necessarily the absence of war.
And to me, that was kind
of a chilling statement.
And it was never really
explained more than that.
What do you mean by that?
Can we have war and
still have peace?
Really?
How are we interpreting
peace, you know?
So all of this is
happening in 1953.
The first seance was
in '52, New Year's Eve,
and then the actual seance
with all the people involved
was in 1953.
The UFO overflights
of Washington, DC,
had occurred in 1952.
Right?
In July of '52.
I don't know if this had any
effect on what people were
thinking at that seance or not.
There might have
been a connection.
But what happened was,
Ruth Forbes Paine Young
was the best friend
of Mary Bancroft.
Mary Bancroft was the
mistress of Allen Dulles,
the head of the CIA.
During the Warren Commission
examinations, and the testimony
and the interviews
that were given,
Ruth Paine is being
interviewed by the panel
about what she knew about
Lee Harvey Oswald, and Marina
Oswald.
The story she wanted
to learn Russian,
and all this other
stuff that was going on.
I don't know if she ever
learned Russian, quite frankly.
But she had Marina living
with her for a while.
Lee, on and off.
And it was Ruth Paine who
basically gave the show away
to the cops, as far as
the rifle was concerned,
and the photographs,
and all that stuff.
But she's the one who put
him in the Texas School Book
Depository.
Her mother-in-law, as I
said, was Ruth Forbes.
She went to visit
Arthur Young and Ruth
Forbes a couple of months
before the assassination.
So she had already known
Marina and Lee very well.
She had a Russian defector--
a US Marine who had
defected to the Soviet Union
and come back with
a Russian wife, who
was the niece of a military
intelligence Colonel--
living in her house.
I think this was discussed.
You know?
When she went up and talked to
Arthur Young and Ruth and all
the other people.
And then she comes back down,
and then a couple of months
later, bang-- the assassination.
Right.
She's now giving testimony
through the Warren Commission,
and she starts to
talk about that trip.
She's going into
details about going up--
and I think it was in
August and September--
to visit the Youngs
in Philadelphia.
And Allen Dulles is there.
He changes the
subject immediately.
He jumps on this, and
starts making jokes--
excuse me-- about taxes.
About something irrelevant.
And the whole conversation
gets derailed.
I mean, it's fascinating.
I couldn't figure out why.
>>SEAN: But you're saying
you think that there's
a connection also
between the nine
and the assassination
of Kennedy.
Not just because
of the personnel
that are around Oswald.
But you think there's an
actual motivational connection.
>>LEVENDA: Well,
there is a connection.
You see, the problem is--
and this is what we're trying
to also explore in the "Secret
Machines" project--
sometimes the connections are
not what you think they are,
or they should be.
In other words, we're looking
at a conspiracy angle.
So you're saying that
Arthur Young, and Ruth--
and his wife, Ruth Forbes--
and all these people
were involved in a conspiracy
to kill the President?
Not the way we understand it.
That's why my book is
called "Sinister Forces."
There's another level
of understanding history
and the connections
between things, which I
call a quantum view of history.
Was the Kennedy assassination
a particle or a wave?
You know, it depends upon
how you're looking at this,
and what you want to
bring to the table.
And what evidence
there is there.
Because a lot of it,
of course, is gone.
So what you're looking at is
the silhouette of something.
A dark and sinister force.
>>SEAN: It's oftentimes
the synchronicities
that are more prominent.
That's the real science
of the universe.
The synchronicity.
And that's why, as humans,
it's so difficult for us
to discern what's taking place.
>>LEVENDA: Yes.
>>SEAN: Anecdotally, I
know someone, actually,
who told me that he
had heard from one
of Kennedy's mistresses that
the only thing Kennedy feared
was the nine.
And my friend told me this.
And he said, I had no idea
what she was talking about.
I thought she meant the
nine Supreme Court justices.
>>LEVENDA: Right.
>>SEAN: And I see your book.
And I'm, like, what is going on?
What is synchronicity
really about?
At the end of the
day, do you believe
that there are spell books,
grimoires, there are things,
you know, things that basically
are channeling these, you know,
another dimension of reality
that is ultimately influencing
our world leaders,
in terms of how
they decide to create, you know,
our policy, which is oftentimes
war, which, you
know, fuels these,
you know, a debt-based
system, right, of economics,
and the pyramid of power.
Do you believe that
there is this, you know,
is this other level
above our leaders
that they basically
consult with, or look to,
in terms-- in guiding them?
>>LEVENDA: It's an
interesting question.
And, you know, as
a person who works
a lot with source material--
documents, interviews,
and things like that--
it's hard to pinpoint something
like this definitively,
and say this is
what's happening.
You can have an
instinctual understanding
of maybe something
like this is going on.
But to answer the first
part of your question
first, because that leads
us into this, of course
the grimoires, the
workbooks in all cultures
contain techniques.
They contain a technology.
An actual technology.
To me, my interest
in religion is not
in the ideologies of
religion, and the theologies.
To me, that's
misdirection, basically.
It doesn't really give
me the information
that I need to know.
Religion as an ethical
practice is one thing
that obviously, for some reason,
doesn't interest me at all.
Maybe because I was
brought up a Catholic.
But for the most part, I
believe that religion is
the exoskeleton of mysticism.
It's what is shown
to the people.
It kind of puts it in a coherent
way, and including the rituals,
of course.
For instance, for a Catholic,
the ritual of the Mass
is an extremely bizarre ritual.
And it was after Vatican II
that I sort of parted ways
with the Catholic Church,
because the English Mass,
and, you know, the chasubles
with the smiling faces
and the guitars ruined the
whole thing for me, you know.
I wanted the
mystical experience,
which the Mass initially had.
So you had, you know, the
death and Resurrection,
like we mentioned before
about Freemasonry.
Here's the death
and Resurrection.
It's an initiation ceremony.
And they're all partaking of
this ceremony in the Mass.
This is extremely
powerful stuff.
So behind the ritual,
and behind the theology,
and behind the
organization, there
is a core of a
technology which was
used to contact these forces
that we're talking about.
These forces of
synchronicity, let's say.
Of the coincidences that
run through history.
You can essentially
contact them.
Make contact in some way.
And when I wrote
"Sinister Forces,"
I was always very
conscious of the fact
that all these people I was
talking about had tried,
one way or another, to
make this kind of contact.
Or had the contact
thrust upon them.
For instance, Guy Banister.
You know.
Being sent as an
FBI agent in 1947
to investigate the UFO sightings
in the Pacific Northwest.
And reporting directly
to J. Edgar Hoover.
You know, here's somebody
who's talking to UFO witnesses.
Experiencers.
Himself.
And now, suddenly, there's a
passage of almost 20 years.
It's 1963, and there's
the assassination.
There's Guy Banister in
New Orleans punching out
Jack Martin.
You know.
Because of the stuff that
was going on with Oswald
in New Orleans.
How did that happen?
Right?
Here was somebody who was
exposed to the UFO experience
in 1947.
In a direct way.
Under orders directly by Hoover.
By J. Edgar Hoover.
And he's sending back telexes
back to Hoover that are marked,
you know, Subject X--
you know, the actual X Files,
and he's reporting on this back
to Hoover.
And then the passage of time,
and he's SAC in Chicago,
and then he retires and
he goes to New Orleans,
sets up his own thing.
He's running guns to the
Cubans, doing whatever else--
the guy became kind
of deranged, right?
Something happened from this
nice, normal FBI agent, who's
photograph you can sometimes
find with his class--
his graduating class with the
FBI, this very nice, normal guy
suddenly becomes this
maniac, you know,
who's suspected, actually,
of killing the president.
>>SEAN: Or part of
that conspiracy.
>>LEVENDA: Or part
of the conspiracy.
So, you know, people make this
contact for good or for ill.
And sometimes the
contact can be dangerous.
You know, you have
an experience,
you don't know how
to understand it.
You don't know how to express
it, how to take it on board,
and now it starts to
color your entire reality.
And that's possibly
what happened
with people like Guy
Banister, or other people who
made this contact.
Like, you know, the Arthur
Young people, and, you know,
Andrija Puharich for sure.
>>SEAN: Well, I have to
circle back, because of--
you meant, obviously,
Tom DeLonge,
and these military
and other insiders
contacts that you've made.
And you are someone who talks
about secret space program.
The idea that, basically, the
US already has a fleet in space,
based on your conversations
with insiders.
Do you believe that we
already are in space?
That we have this
other dimension
of our military
industrial complex
and our spiritual
complex that already
is aware of the alien presence?
>>LEVENDA: OK, I'll have to
answer that very carefully.
I believe that, essentially,
number one, they
know more than they're telling.
In general terms.
To the general public.
I think that they are holding
back some information.
And I think the reason they're
holding it back is not always
for the reasons we
suspect-- political reasons,
or military reasons--
there's enough of that.
I mean, there are
military reasons,
you know, to keep secrecy.
Especially the Cold War was
a time of tremendous secrecy.
We didn't know
what was going on.
And that was for a reason.
There was a struggle between
these two superpowers.
But now, I think that there
is another aspect to this.
And the people that we've spoken
to in general terms, I can say,
without being too
specific, have talked
about the spiritual
aspect of the phenomenon.
Of the UFO phenomenon.
This is something that
everybody, for the most part,
seems to agree is part
of the experience.
There is a spirituality,
let's say, to the phenomenon.
And that is what's
making everybody,
I think, from my perspective,
a little nervous.
Because we're not, as a
society in this country,
really set up to handle
this in a positive way.
I've written in "Sinister
Forces" about shamanism.
The shaman goes
through an initiation,
which is talking about
Siberian shamanism.
The real thing.
They go through an experience
which is horrendous.
They experience their
bodies being torn apart.
They experience their bowels
being removed and reinserted.
They experience death
in all kinds of ways,
as part of their initiation--
alone, in the forest.
And when all of this is over
with, they come back, reborn.
We don't have a mechanism
for that in this country.
So when people start to
undergo processes like that,
we either put them away, or in
some cases, as I've written,
I believe that in some cases
serial killers are shamans
who have not made it back.
They're externalizing
what should be
an internal spiritual process.
And they are constantly
acting out the same ritual
over and over
again, because this
should have been
internalized, and it
should have led to wholeness.
To integration.
And it didn't.
And I think that's
a very good way
of trying to understand
what's happening
in the United States-- or
in the West in general.
This idea that we
really don't have
a mechanism for incorporating
spirituality in a positive way.
We simply don't.
It's partisan religion.
>>SEAN: And as a
result, we-- we've
become a culture
of serial killers.
Even though we are not
all killing, but yet
we are part of this
militarized death machine
that goes and projects power.
That murders, you know,
without second thought.
Drops bombs.
Mutilates people.
And has not internalized,
in a sense, this process,
that we can actually go
to the internal state.
We can then start to welcome
our space brothers, perhaps.
>>LEVENDA: Well, I
don't know if I want
to welcome the space brothers.
We're not at that point yet.
I'd certainly like to say hi.
I've spent a lot
of time overseas.
And when 9/11 happened,
people were saying--
Americans were saying--
why do they hate us?
You know, this was the constant
thing you used to hear.
Why do they hate us?
And I traveled a
lot in my life--
since the '70s until now.
And you don't know
why they hate us?
Go overseas.
Just spend a little time
in Latin America, or Asia,
for instance.
Southeast Asia is a
good place to start.
Or Africa, or the Middle East.
You'll find out why.
You know, there's a perception
of the United States
which I don't agree
with, necessarily.
I think that we
do a lot more good
than we're given credit for.
But at the same time, you
know, our personality,
as seen by others, is such
that we are not trusted.
We are suspected of being too
big, too powerful, too strong,
and not in tune with what this
means to the rest of the world.
You know.
So this is a problem
that we have.
And we cannot manage
these expectations,
because every time we get to
the point where it looks like
we're going to, you
know, make a good face,
we go and bomb somebody.
>>SEAN: Right.
>>LEVENDA: Or we go and
overthrow a country,
or a government or something.
And we have a rationale
for doing that.
And as someone
who has, you know,
spoken to a lot of people in
the intelligence community,
in the military community
in general, and I--
I hang out with them.
I, you know, I joined
the association
of former intelligence officers
so I could talk to these people
and listen to their aspect,
their point of view.
These are people who
believe what they're doing.
They're patriotic.
You know.
They're not people who are
out there to, you know,
demonize, you know,
the third world,
or the developing nations.
They're not out there to
cause this kind of mischief.
They think, you know, they're
doing the right thing,
and with tremendous sacrifice.
So there's a power
behind all of that.
There's motivation behind
the people in the field.
Behind the people who are taking
the orders and executing them.
There's something else, and
they don't know what it is.
>>SEAN: Yeah.
Even they don't know.
>>LEVENDA: Even they don't know.
You know?
And that's the thing
that has always
fascinated me about this.
I was very upset, as
a Catholic, initially,
learning about the
Dead Sea Scrolls.
And not knowing why they
were not translated yet.
We found them in 1947,
for crying out loud.
And here I was, a teenager
in the '60s, thinking, well,
what's in there?
Shouldn't we know
Shouldn't we know the truth
about, you know, Jesus,
and the saints, and the Virgin
Mary, and all the rest of it.
You're holding back something?
This is of vital
importance to us, right?
As a Catholic, as a believing
Catholic, I thought,
what are you doing?
Print this stuff,
so that we can see
what's going on, so we know,
before we're all dead, you
know, what is really happening.
How can we, you know,
understand this?
As I got older and I
got older, I realized,
you know, the fix is in, baby.
You know?
>>SEAN: The sinister
forces behind it.
>>LEVENDA: Yeah.
>>SEAN: Peter, thank you so
much for joining me today.
>>LEVENDA: My pleasure.
Always.
>>SEAN: Always
fascinating talk to you.
And there you have it, folks.
Our great insights
from Peter Levenda.
You may not agree
with or believe
everything said here today.
But I urge you to
check out his books--
"Secret Machines," and
"The Lovecraft Code."
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path,
and it requires
constant reassessment.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
You are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]